# System Prompt Library

## Concept and Need
The System Prompt Library is envisioned as a dynamic, user-centered digital repository designed for educators. Its primary purpose is to provide a comprehensive collection of customizable prompts for Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPTs), tailored specifically for educational use. 

System prompts play a critical role in the design of learning technologies enabled by generative artificial intelligence (GenAI). As part of a GenAI-powered tool for learning and instruction, they are responsible for guiding learner interaction, facilitating engagement and motivation, supporting pedagogical goals, [providing feedback and assessment](https://github.com/ncwilson78/System-Prompt-Library/blob/main/Prompts/Learning%20Activities/AI%20Mentor%20Gives%20Feedback.md), ensuring content accuracy and relevance, [encouraging reflective thinking and metacognition](https://github.com/ncwilson78/System-Prompt-Library/blob/main/Prompts/Learning%20Activities/PolicymakerGPT.md), facilitating adaptivity and personalization, and enhancing accessibility and inclusivity, among others. This site also outlines various [strategies for designing effective system prompts](https://github.com/ncwilson78/System-Prompt-Library/blob/main/About/02%20System%20prompts%20in%20education.md), such as incorporating examples, character creation, narrative engagement, self-generated prompts, and [sequential reasoning](https://github.com/ncwilson78/System-Prompt-Library/blob/main/Prompts/Learning%20Activities/Vector%20Explorer.md). 

This repository consists of several examples, created and shared by Harvard-affiliated educators and by experts in the field of GenAI and education. For each prompt, we have created a **breif summary** of the prompt's purpose and utility, summarized the **goals** of the prompt in ther form of specific learning objectives or instructional goals, provided a basic **structure** of the interaction each prompt affords, and curated relevant **additional materials**. Each section is intended to highlight the basic building blocks that go into system prompt design for educational purposes, and enable educators to experiment with, adapt, and create system prompts for their specific contexts.

## Background: TutorBot Seminar, December 2023
In December of 2023, the Harvard Initiative for Learning and Teaching (HILT) held a special seminar for invited guests to present and discuss their recent work on the development of customized GPTs for learning, or “tutorbots.” A series of small presentations were held as faculty and staff members from various schools demonstrated the many interfaces they are building for and testing in the classroom. Attendees learned about and discussed the functionalities of different systems, their potential improvements, how students are using these tools in course assignments and homework, and the future steps instructors are taking to generate more experimentation and exploration with similar technologies. Questions and comments raised throughout the event emphasized the importance of innovation, more Harvard-wide collaboration, and a call for more space to practice and experiment with other AI tools as such. The notion of a system prompt library stems from these discussions, with the purpose of fostering and enabling innovation through hands-on experimentation, collaboration, and sharing. 

## How to Use this Site
Browse through the collection of prompts for [educators](System-Prompt-Library/Teaching Activities) and learners.

## Disclaimer
